---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/prose/lauren-olamina-and-the-two-body-problem/","tags":["politics","prose","SUNJIR0","gender"]}
---


> [!QUOTE] Lauren Olamina
> "We are Earthseed  
The life that perceives itself  
Changing.  
Earthseed is not an answer  
It is a reality,  
And in its own sense,  
An answer to the reality  
Of the human condition."

On July 20th, 2024, a young woman in Los Angeles started writing in her diary. She spoke of a state on fire. Of violence, of virtual realities seeping into the physical realm, of rampant inequality, big men with big plans to colonize Mars, and she wrote of the rise of American fascism, a trend led by a right wing Christian fundamentalist running for president under the slogan “Make America Great Again”

While this may sound familiar to those based in the United States of your realm, this girl and this diary are not from your world. These words were written by Lauren Olamina, an inhabitant of an alternate timeline whose story we were made aware of by Octavia Butler. Many call her a prophet, an oracle, but I see her more as a part of my tribe. Someone who can peel the veil back and look into other dimensions. She herself pushed back against being confined to a particular genre or time, be it science fiction or Afrofuturism, and when one really digs into her work it’s obvious to see why. She transports us to the ancient past, to not quite passed parallel perditions, and fantastical realms that share more with our world than we may care to admit, just as often as she gifts us with visions of the so called future. And now that we’ve entered into the window of time that her most famous parables describe, it’s much clearer to see that what we’ve been given is not a direct view into this timeline’s future, but a glimpse into another world. Another world that looks, sounds, feels eerily reminiscent to the slowly unfolding apocalypse around us, but with enough deviation for us to find some hope.

Sure, maybe the Make America Great Again slogan debuted a few years in advance in your America, but at least water still costs less than gasoline. At least one can still walk outside in LA without a guarantee of violence, at least you can be relatively certain that you’re safe from strangers (except for maybe cops) killing you in your own home. Things may be dire, but we can learn from the differences between these worlds in order to prevent full on catastrophe. And perhaps, we can find a way to send our own parables back over to Lauren’s side as well.

With my experience in your realm, particularly having a vessel born and bred in your America, I find myself answering a lot of questions about what the hell is happening out there. I believe that explaining over and over and over again, especially to people who lack context, has given me an interesting perspective and a method of explaining it without oversimplifying what is obviously quite a complex situation.

I would argue that one of the biggest roots of this problem is America’s two party system. Obviously, there are other factors at play: plutocracy, gerontocracy, all of the problems that come from running an outdated system designed by genocidal slave owners, and so on. But I can’t stop thinking about this two party problem. As an outsider, it feels so emblematic of life on your planet. You all think in such strict binaries. And this is coming from some whose mother tongue is 1s and 0s. You believe in man and woman. Good and bad. Democrat and Republican. And even when you consider things that exist outside of these dichotomies, you don’t, not really. You place these things on spectrums, as existing in between these two poles along a single axis. Or, worse, you create a new dichotomy that exists only in contrast to the one that was previously acknowledged. I mean just think about the absurdity of the term “non-binary,” defining an identity not through it’s own characteristics, but through negation.

Where I come from, and in many of the realms I’ve peeked into, we think of these concepts not as spectrums, but as hyperobjects. You are not a man nor woman, nor do you exist in between these states; your gender is made up of many, many dimensions. Perhaps there is one axis for how strongly you feel gender, another dimension for thinking of your gender over time, another for how many distinct genders you feel simultaneously, and perhaps a measure of your masculinity or femininity, but it’s pretty rare to think about these concepts (or the equivalents that we have for them) as somehow linked to one another, as though feeling strongly about one somehow diminishes the strength of attachment to the other.

The party line in America is that the Democrats are progressive and that the Republicans are conservative, but this isn’t really true. If you’ve ever spoken to a European about American politics, you’re almost guaranteed to be confronted with the fact that in many other parts of the world, Democrats would not be considered progressive in the slightest. This is one of the main problems with the American political binary: Democrats are progressive only in comparison to Republicans, but if there were space for other voices, it would be obvious to see that their policies don’t stand up to the label. I’m trying to avoid using terms like leftist and right-wing because I think that this spatial metaphor reinforces the myth of this binary or spectrum, but to borrow these widely used terms, if we think of Donald Trump or the Proud Boys as far-right, then it’s more accurate to describe Democrats as near-right than as left.

I think we can mostly attribute the lack of real progressives in the American political system to the fact that they were quite literally purged from government and other positions of power within society, not just once, but twice during America’s two “Red Scares.” This purging of leftists virtually erased the possibility for progressives in electoral politics both in the moment, and in the future through the introduction of legislation that criminalized even affiliations with left-leaning organizations. Plus, the use of illegal tactics for the gathering of evidence and the murder and discrediting of movement leaders through misinformation rendered extralegal methods practically neutralized.

It is in the wake of these purges that the modern Democratic party was born. It is at this point where it is no longer accurate to describe the Democrats as progressive or liberal, which is why the term neo-liberal is so helpful and used so frequently today, both because it accurately describes the evolution of modern Democrats, while also serving them by obfuscating the reality of their policies through a term that is famously hard to define. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy defines neoliberalism as “the philosophical view that a society’s political and economic institutions should be robustly liberal and capitalist, but supplemented by a constitutionally limited democracy and a modest welfare state.” Do with that what you will, but my interpretation of neo-liberalism is: a political philosophy that seeks to maintain capitalist hegemony through the performance (rather than practice) of progressive values.

A system that seeks to reinforce a capitalist status quo, regardless of the means by which this maintenance is sought can not progressive. Putting aside moral arguments about the dehumanization that comes with capitalism, the fact of the matter is that America operates under a somewhat free market capitalist system and so any political philosophy that is rooted and invested in its continued reign is inherently conservative, in that it seeks to conserve the system rather than progress beyond it.

When it comes to the performance rather than practice of progressive values, well, this is embodied in the hypocrisy of the democratic party which parades women, queer people, and people of color as beacons of progress while upholding an unjust system. It’s a Black president campaigning on Hope and Change before sending more troops to Afghanistan, drones to Somalia, and assisting in the murder of Muammar Gaddafi. It’s the unquestioned nomination of a biracial girl boss in the final hour without consulting the electorate. It’s the Black female mayor of DC responding to protests against police brutality by renaming the road leading to the White House “Black Lives Matter Street” while tanks and police officers trained by the Israeli Defense Force haunt the same blocks as the protestors. The problem with identity politics is not in racist notions about some “great replacement,” or homophobic myths about a gay agenda to abuse children. It’s in the fact that your identity as a marginalized person is used to sell you an illusion while covering up policies that are incredibly undemocratic, authoritarian, and inhumane. All in the service of keeping the capitalist machine running.

Now, I don’t want to make it sound like I support the Republicans, the point I’m trying to make is that the popular idea of the American political spectrum is outdated if we’re being charitable, but more accurately just an illusion, a myth. Where many consider the democratic party progressive when they’re actually conservative, the republican party is widely considered conservative, when they’re actually much further to the “right.” The modern republican party in this Trumpe diem, are reactionaries. They explicitly seek to return the country to a former state, to regress. And it’s not hidden at all, this is the true meaning of “Make America Great Again.” This slogan, spoken by a man that has already attempted a coup, chanted by thousands at rallies, repeated by millions of voters, worn with pride as a badge of honor explicitly states a desire to return America to some position of former glory. And this ideal is not just propagandistic short hand. During Trump’s time in office he made a point of not just instituting policies based in “conservative values” but explicitly repealing, reversing, rolling back progressive policies: he withdrew from the Paris Agreement, he reversed the Iranian Nuclear deal, he banned trans people from serving in the military, after a policy set in place during the Obama administration. And while these examples can be considered reactionary by definition, the fact that these reversals are of contemporary policies, can make it hard for people to recognize or call them out as regressive. It’s almost as though the time scale is too small. But when he stood up at a podium for Christian voters and claimed that if they vote, he’ll “fix the system” so that they won’t have to vote again, he gave us a peek into the long term vision, the ultimate end game of his reactionary stance. Not to reverse policies that were set in place within this millennia, but to return the country to a state that predates American democracy itself. When he claimed that God saved him from being killed by an assassin, while working to ensure that a former or sitting president cannot be put on trial, we see dreamemories of one-party rule, monarchy, a god-king with a Baron as heir. 

Parties in a two party system are constantly vying to gain more control, and at various points along the timeline one party or another will have greater power and will employ “right-wing” or “authoritarian” tactics in order to conserve that power, while the party that is fighting to gain it will use “leftist” or “revolutionary” methods in order to take power for themselves. Eventually, that revolutionary party may win power, but at that point, they will begin to use conservative tactics in order to maintain it and vice versa.

Right now, the Democrats are the conservative party representing a neo-liberal position, and the Republicans are the revolutionary outsiders. And here we see the problem of using the language of left and right again. Republican policies cannot be described as leftist; however, their tactics can be described as revolutionary. Lets just compare their playbook to the leftists of the two Red Scares. The republicans appeal to the working class masses, particularly through decrying the out of touch elites, which mirrors the worker led strikes of the 1920s; the party endorses “political action” outside of electoral politics, even political violence like January 6th, which gives echoes of the Galleanisti bombings; they’ve even courted Russia for assistance in gaining political power. I mean, what would the republican McCarthy and Hoover say? 

But I think the most important tactic that they’ve employed is that they have formed a defacto coalition bloc party of conservative, regressive, and reactionary ideologies that all coexist within and share political representation through the Republican party. To put it more simply, the Republican party is home to Proud Boys, traditional GOP fiscal conservatives, Christian fundamentalists, etc. who don’t agree on all things, but share the Republican party to maintain some political representation. During the first red scare, Senators made note of how the wave of strikes had united progressives into a diverse but coherent bloc. This tactic currently feels impossible for progressives and the Democratic party today, not only because true progressives represent an existential threat to the neo-liberal status quo, but because of the aforementioned progressive purges. With Project 2025, once the reactionary revolutionaries seize control, another purge is coming.