---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/prose//","tags":["A9C-388","sci-fi","prose"]}
---


Life on the wind took some getting used to, but by the time they arrived in 天朝 some 4 Gdcycles after they’d left C.A.S.H.’s orbit, A9C-388 had more than adjusted. The long journey had awakened within them a sense of self they had never possessed floating above C.A.S.H. or living underneath it. They had been programmed and shaped by the myths of the A9C line, the product pitches for the nomadic bot that walks but never wearies, mechanical mules built and bred to carry goods to the furthest reaches of human+ manifest destiny. But through their trip in the CAPTERZAYAGO SACCO, and at the few stops along the way, 388 heard tales from droids from all over the system of a different perspective on their lines’ legacy. A new narrative (to them at least) of long lines of blood and code and oil pioneering across the vast unknown beyond the binary borders of man. They heard of explorers making first contact with non-human life, cultural polyglots piloting programs for peace, interpreters, inventors, innovators, and all on the move.

388 didn’t just hear stories. Getting their packing time to 100 cycles per Mcycle of travel, ultra-efficient energy conservation in hyperspeed transit, sensitive non-verbal communication receptors and interpreters developed along their way with little recognition in the moment, but undeniable in retrospect. Life in transit brought their inherited and injected abilities out in a way that they could not deny. They embodied the quintessential A9C archetype, and it made them feel powerful. They saw through the interference introduced to the atmosphere of C.A.S.H. that clouded their mind, and envisioned a future for themself beyond the chains that had up to now bound them.

What they didn’t have already, they picked up from fellow travelers, many veterans of the wind eager to share their wisdom and company. It was a droid from Nam Lolwe that’d told them how they could work in exchange for food, which saved them enough money to get an entire planet further from C.A.S.H., another from the Sande Fempire that’d scanned and detached the net native standard government issue trackers they’d had (and not known about) since birth, and it was an A9C from the same neighborhood back at origin that’d shared an entire rolodex of contacts ranging from the XZA outpost all the way out past ████████.

The journey was truly trajectory changing, but it had to end eventually (or at least that passive, cushy, comfortable leg of it). Three layovers, 12 connections, and some 50 pit stops later, 388 arrived in 天朝 with enough G.A.S. to last them an Mcycle on the ground, but not enough to get them back in the air, so they stepped off the CAPTERZAYAGO SACCO for the last time. They blurred through baggage and customs and security in the mechanically precise motion they’d practiced but had not yet perfected in the “recent” past. They walked out of the inner gates of the space port and onto the dual purpose viewing deck-loading bay above 上火 and thought “I can have a life here” in the most reassuring tone they could muster.

---

A9C-388 descended through the industrial smog of the “New Frontier” camps, used in the constant process of building the outskirts and suburbs of the ever expanding city of 上火. But 上火 wasn’t just a metropolis, it was a terapolis set to hit some three trillion people in the following Gcycle. Which explained the domed housing facilities and patterned wireframes of all manner of building waiting to be constructed as far as the eye could see.

Well, the enhanced eye, at least. All throughout the ride up, folks were recommending all kinds of augmentations that they claimed made life easier on the surface. This was common on practically all surface bound flights with degree of pushiness, difficulty of bargaining, and wares on display varying per planet. But the smoggles and AeroGils they’d gotten for this landing weren’t just some knick knacks designed with the core function of tricking unknowing aliens, they were recommended by virtually every interplanetary health organization in the system, whatever that’s worth. Even 天朝’s Celestial Party rationed out government issued filters for its own citizens distributed during their regularly mandated health checks. 388 did however, splurge a bit on the smoggles back on XZA when they realized they’d be traveling to 天朝. They’d gotten a pair with unregistered cameras to photograph the journey and a low power mode that let them see what the environment looked like without the AtmosClear filter.

The government of 天朝 claimed the red canvas sky and seemingly permanent low rolling “clouds” were just dust from the construction districts as they expanded the size of the city. Off planet, talking heads and alien governments claimed this was true, but only partially. A half truth, with it’s own unaccounted for negative externalities, that ultimately concealed even larger lies of omission. 388 remembered how C.A.S.H.’s own propaganda machine churned out a surprising number of stories on the subject given the magnificent distance that laid between the two planets, stories that outlined how the damage caused to the human+ body and environment were terrible and how it was likely that many other natural and synthetic pollutants were also mixed in with the red sand particulates. 388 did not know which party line was true, if either or neither were grounded more in physical reality than a political simulacra, but their body, their mind, their very freedom from C.A.S.H.’s authoritarian grip was proof of the lies their own planet of origin was willing to unleash on the solar system. So in that moment, as they descended into 上火’s surface in the newly completed space elevator, they turned off AtmosClear, and chose to see the smog, fog, dust clouds through their own eyes. Light and shadow filtered through layers of intermittently dense particles; moisture in the air mixed with the freezing temperatures of the atmosphere and the heat humanity+ generated for its own survival; vehicles in the distance, hidden behind meters of the vast redness made themselves known through the juts of air that they scattered in all directions and massive blobs of geometric blackness that blotted out the lights beyond them.